## Subresource Integrity

If you are loading Highlight.js via CDN you may wish to use [Subresource Integrity](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Subresource_Integrity) to guarantee that you are using a legimitate build of the library.

To do this you simply need to add the `integrity` attribute for each JavaScript file you download via CDN. These digests are used by the browser to confirm the files downloaded have not been modified.

```html
<script
  src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/highlight.js/11.10.0/highlight.min.js"
  integrity="sha384-pGqTJHE/m20W4oDrfxTVzOutpMhjK3uP/0lReY0Jq/KInpuJSXUnk4WAYbciCLqT"></script>
<!-- including any other grammars you might need to load -->
<script
  src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/highlight.js/11.10.0/languages/go.min.js"
  integrity="sha384-Mtb4EH3R9NMDME1sPQALOYR8KGqwrXAtmc6XGxDd0XaXB23irPKsuET0JjZt5utI"></script>
```

The full list of digests for every file can be found below.

### Digests

```
sha384-no5/zgQGupzPFGWV8VpJzfQau5/GI2v5b7I45l6nKc8gMOxzBHfgyxNdjQEnmW94 /es/languages/bash.js
sha384-u2nRnIxVxHkjnpxFScw/XgxNVuLz4dXXiT56xbp+Kk2b8AuStNgggHNpM9HO569A /es/languages/bash.min.js
sha384-qimhSkVWof5rfaFajQk8KAtzSRYyIArcJCMKWdDcNq34F4uplk08wmEyUiYLmO+3 /es/languages/c.js
sha384-5fESKgrRcGs7I/89bn7NKFcHyvIVcmQIG4JfCEAV5Rg5VVtskrmGkHVOIsD1642v /es/languages/c.min.js
sha384-+9dzNYaLHp3OPspFCOJGrEwfiOV3yqeD/atUDYVt9zKUJ8IW2QxffCT2LfmGfwfW /es/languages/css.js
sha384-G44u1/pUATC8754FIKYqkCxCl9AQYnspnFxzuR3RB1YVnTvqOEofqvZNQMUWcY/1 /es/languages/css.min.js
sha384-dpaRAfrfqLJ/m4qzPviZ8UztzpU27eoBSH+8GjP1nkccMBZ6x9EnnhvlNYMDz0P2 /es/languages/django.js
sha384-xmWxMjSXleWbbNXqoQdpI8OkRJnRmiuJ8cmkovyFJSZxyjycv8DA4XuENvWPDLDk /es/languages/django.min.js
sha384-conFwWhJOaJ8yLyZJUeX6IlE3YGpdoxazLFVV//QB5E+ASXMVyFnQE1V6SfgMzEq /es/languages/dockerfile.js
sha384-Dw9HMdbM7eZULiZ40cTZJ0NU88GUU5VQ22H+PVZ0IzxPGdnPPqKdsg4Uk3D2wbCB /es/languages/dockerfile.min.js
sha384-oQpcUGMBf+VDTHOLQ1uhPp1FgNBo0OZc9gbXGuVFwAogHlkh/Iw6cvKKgcgCQkmV /es/languages/javascript.js
sha384-3T8DJ91yCa1//uY9h8Bo4QLrgEtbz4ILN2x9kSM4QWX9/1kKu6UXC3RAbVQV85UQ /es/languages/javascript.min.js
sha384-R87hRh4kF8+iz2sB6FvLrfR0XZBohjFXeJKIXld1Eji2UVi+M2+OIgJKma/9Ko6u /es/languages/json.js
sha384-QFDPNpqtrgZCuAr70TZJFM4VCY+xNnyGKwJw2EsWIBJOVcWAns9PHcLzecyDVv+x /es/languages/json.min.js
sha384-BlC0mPZAwpk9QZaocgajHbYH8yYkOUZrDKpeaPBeCGrQfQ6eTZXyInS411HpGnO0 /es/languages/less.js
sha384-vmEaRQjBedDEQk0PmHXdDeC6kbUsP+AhxtGkI2jQ/VdSRZ9ndnDOBUuxp+cZ7pQV /es/languages/less.min.js
sha384-JkFMmKMbHcXjdfHauRnREGG6i73GyMisdqNivBm4Z9m2Oc82YIu5jQtIjLa508e8 /es/languages/markdown.js
sha384-65/lNNIY+ayhHTtFznjnyZ5w2NDdZIpSEcqjss/p4ex5JamZ46FdYwDDf6IBLCmE /es/languages/markdown.min.js
sha384-+ORCyjxlNVWQ/xCTFlWWc05iwK/J1wTnRy61YcExQSzVjhYQj3DPGtydA9IB3KQy /es/languages/pgsql.js
sha384-OH8IAQNE+/4/z6sdDTBio6BftdgqOsadsVYkSooVoUwdZYg95qly80XMjUigH5zk /es/languages/pgsql.min.js
sha384-BxojDi6ePBYN3unEc6aUEpUtUyx0Eq0i/UZPISuI2YQy6eAD5HzD0dtBC53uZ6R1 /es/languages/php.js
sha384-C28kAnknmyKQUME+2sa0tyQkFMN1S/aUSB1gQ+PKUf0+ewgxNh8CwAmd+C0UUaZ7 /es/languages/php.min.js
sha384-dkR9Qv3ZGmcTGGFP26gmcHC9DBgRYE0XLGxF3mBXlBZaBrscW0vIiVN7oTyQmrbe /es/languages/plaintext.js
sha384-AkqanemYxn6S3BQnW2++1+xqywaq2bJfFlfiAkPNd7Yv5t9YsS8tFzVVopyOa747 /es/languages/plaintext.min.js
sha384-e+d8RFZbtc5Pmt3xfX9uuElm63v5qOj7T5hAkkFbnYc1wEk7wCLlzOsm66MCf5Uk /es/languages/python.js
sha384-CPHh+9FxkWF3OtMZdTj5oQN1Qti0p4/5XBABz/JdgssOKHmfAOFz6Gu4tsG6MQiH /es/languages/python.min.js
sha384-NtjW7lI7c0f4eQUAsyYEvuUEeZPVwqBsisjGqqXls0p3Acc2wX2ppJxBvFC7jet4 /es/languages/r.js
sha384-+SoUnimzbx9Uf3b+zsNgb58sz3J3nRHE7ftjhuB8hvcb3K8D8G0Fe3Bu4lBrA3Fj /es/languages/r.min.js
sha384-kcAcxYNWYVMr2nwgsILhFHZH+OkRjbK6xazY53sIcW9bta3onTtDBKug0swjsiMC /es/languages/scss.js
sha384-mlx1v98SAsuX2QnqD9+dsXOfilvT7QQjfyOD3HTrvA4TXsxV4yjW/+TqhUADUuOH /es/languages/scss.min.js
sha384-ZX3mm6sjLYWMBTMUJYzvQXYHNWVJkD+t1ppx4BysyVs6cVhvYFVuwMlVCeAwtwm9 /es/languages/sql.js
sha384-DloKeCkj/pTPHeqWu3keGoEPpZJGm44yQjSmSfpWasykAMUobM0hcYFFPsg1PE6K /es/languages/sql.min.js
sha384-4SbTAv3AX2fuPCpSv6HW3p07YgA7hFfcwG2zJHtYv0ATIt1juD3IXj2NSYwTeIpm /languages/bash.js
sha384-83HvQQdGTWqnRLmgm19NjCb1+/awKJGytUX9sm3HJb2ddZ9Fs1Bst2bZogFjt9rr /languages/bash.min.js
sha384-WHdxyD51Y+ytDdcYGVkKHQOThUwwhLl/1GvZxHTHL4ImI4NS32L/B8bvB/1zN/Mk /languages/c.js
sha384-jtwnwOYA+K4zYN55fA4z4U0PTK5oEp4RcLYaXkYRKO3UUzge1o21ArmvKmTRdh/d /languages/c.min.js
sha384-h6xPJgkyvp13tIs697wZHjCH20tW1aJOrvnAKiZZiATSWZp0lyLB4bAdsEhWUSze /languages/css.js
sha384-+MO3D3y/aZzZq7QMAAA5KiuAcqBZivJHFmVUXfwdBoLxEXeGTeQGsNMll4fpnegg /languages/css.min.js
sha384-gfyiMmAn2+1KPBU6zgf5/GuxwAS1MG2sXO2QNIa1b8gWqS+ZAEGASFZUv2DTTr0I /languages/django.js
sha384-E8a05vTFeTlJrGsYy6uvHSN7YyYtYVDfuTB0NYKryrTqkKAh0Kljndtou/5x9KxE /languages/django.min.js
sha384-KgZWfCUcAWOSNTSNOBUrbGToPbSNE30TSimcL9oKDQ35EApOQoCYU4o2ayix5Ohe /languages/dockerfile.js
sha384-jg4vR4ePpACdBVLAe+31BrI3MW4sfv1AS62HlXRXmQWk2q98yJqKR5VxHzuABw8X /languages/dockerfile.min.js
sha384-p/utwvqrRVOLlz0BjJ0BCGCb2liTDipfz47/QmGXz9hoPIjCKYEgmYUC30VmGgZy /languages/javascript.js
sha384-L/XmDiyusXomLRGcRmcBpPlboRFjpQNV747OJvg+sEOpgGYvUsNwcC4JLNQ2dI6O /languages/javascript.min.js
sha384-psmmPlbfEWGyvRapexDqkVTgNz7Y1xvlGdLNWQSafI4GFQYFDXPZxVXH1laU4n6l /languages/json.js
sha384-Bb6DhE3tUpBROwypL78TbhRUs9QbCt2GxcxVSYglt2l3MefrYkm4CfwjfWhRfQaX /languages/json.min.js
sha384-zlcx7qQtpp4cqCCPEDhWKvb3lEbhomD5HTubdLR78S/3AQBJGkHiT6LGziV0f4yH /languages/less.js
sha384-NZS9QHMmwN86GbNpIvGs4HOB2EzfqPjhIHqZviwZIw1HLumSMRnl4X/OIgpyP0+K /languages/less.min.js
sha384-TVvUXbmPgdS59xZSFUeyNQ1vUkeCbBpuMj3qlzdEwdQhoO5F/WNdI94UEw8g7Enp /languages/markdown.js
sha384-sFh+6oaRBb6kdaMLf8x7qeH7NTvm2u1Ta6PtI0S8hoA+bP7UtHCyKFzaI1JBXwhT /languages/markdown.min.js
sha384-QYdE/O+kYLzPISnj43XU2PBSQGgHxlNW3s9e1CfQn3/mdj2U2lygqPmCk6mh24Ib /languages/pgsql.js
sha384-oJqzx2KYttoB62Br3yGkuDMB7q08+JIjBH1jiTmGfz94kIjSpP8WFYdneQESWp3z /languages/pgsql.min.js
sha384-swGDgtGOmzrsbFAaQRjzvGs0hhe0N86mfHIuisr3W9AT0hiheGyRORSGrbMDGOw5 /languages/php.js
sha384-Xd0AQIkWCEjBL8BNMtDMGVqFXkf445J6PNUJdXbh334ckjeSa90wtSUjXySuz+rt /languages/php.min.js
sha384-v4qiQbdZu8obdLOFoHrZxA44mmxnjZUelyHe7A6RuqmckxO5weYQVrN8Dx2UpAR1 /languages/plaintext.js
sha384-hE+znpd5xggEBW6IccZoCI0mgFHAfLVuqT/7aW8RakaQ4UJnI058SfIX3lhdGxtE /languages/plaintext.min.js
sha384-WNah6F2QDUbmrNCi0fSEyKJbSb01S1ijnoiwbDnegW7dm2Cz/H1CiH1HhWlUvj01 /languages/python.js
sha384-YDj7s2Wf0QEwarV3OB8lvoNJJCH032vOLMDo2HDrYiEpQ+QmKN+e++x3hElX5S+w /languages/python.min.js
sha384-as0oqcSBkBCW8JS5FUngtpwqXH0qK8dlfpPE2IYoERAn+MRsJdlb89n/hgKYshzJ /languages/r.js
sha384-u+x0P8zfV33Hs+FIbrPIw38IUbqKyYA1yEdL911mrwtUJxaNJtMOdB2injOcZMmF /languages/r.min.js
sha384-1MNX8RDXroN7D+Jeq9f6EysUNAuhuQMq32wKcGB5yEDEJalUxEoSjfRVJhF0+YV6 /languages/scss.js
sha384-7CdPzO1jMDolQK+LCRlGiW1Oka6fSiQdIiqfTvHeBk2Hm2iYNoqMn60aJ9HdKkjb /languages/scss.min.js
sha384-w/OmtgUvmlKWaVatpcvuEQxP7bkJzI5gLeeQkuXjApJNiQvNmXFL2PBM5RWgKqDr /languages/sql.js
sha384-2uzCjI3OPwJce6i2hphsYs1qqTqRrDnfPXbfjZggPWy2/Lgl8gzV9Hyl0jhhoWy4 /languages/sql.min.js
sha384-xX/CKdIBvVqllhnyYcEJVMJWxvKlR/+B5LKd9/Z7z8a/sL4hT9Hxr63o8rwD6WGa /highlight.js
sha384-5z5IWa4d6oy74P8T1aiKgB6m41Cdpt2fLHg2GAR7idY2g26iRMklb/6n3Qvjwxra /highlight.min.js
```

