## More Sprites

- Scratch allows for many sprites to be on the screen at once.
- Adding another sprite, add the following code blocks to your program:

        when green flag clicked
        go to x: (0) y: (0)
        point in direction (90)
        forever
        if <<touching (left wall v)?> or <touching (right wall v)?>> then
        turn right (180) degrees
        end
        move (1) steps
        end

  Notice how the Yale sprite seems to get in the way of the Harvard sprite by moving back and forth. When it bumps into a wall, it turns around until it bumps the wall again. You can learn more by [exploring these code blocks](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/565127193).

- You can even make a sprite follow another sprite. Adding another sprite, add the following code blocks to your program:

        when green flag clicked
        go to (random position v)
        forever
        point towards (Harvard v)
        move (1) steps

  Notice how the MIT logo now seems to follow around the Harvard one. You can learn more by [exploring these code blocks](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/565479840).

- Go try the full game [Ivy’s Hardest Game](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/565742837).

## Summing Up

In this lesson, you learned how this course sits in the wide world of computer science and programming. You learned…

- Few students come to this class with prior coding experience!
- You are not alone! You are part of a community.
- Problem solving is the essence of the work of computer scientists.
- This course is not simply about programming – this course will introduce you to a new way of learning that you can apply to almost every area of life.
- How numbers, text, images, music, and video are understood by computers.
- The fundamental programming skill of pseudocoding.
- How abstraction will play a role in your future work in this course.
- The basic building blocks of programming, including functions, conditionals, loops, and variables.
- How to build a project in Scratch.

See you next time!
