

Functions
---------

*   In Scratch, we utilized the `say` block to display any text on the screen. Indeed, in C, we have a function called `printf` that does exactly this.

<ul>
<li>
<p>Notice our code already invokes this function:</p>

    printf("hello, world\n");

<p>Notice that the printf function is called. The argument passed to printf is ‘hello, world\\n’. The statement of code is closed with a <code>;</code>.</p>
</li>
</ul>
   
<ul>
<li>
<p>A common error in C programming is the omission of a semicolon. Modify your code as follows:</p>

    #include <stdio.h>

    int main(void)
    {
        printf("hello, world\n")
    }

<p>Notice the semicolon is now gone.</p>
</li>
</ul>  
    
*   In your terminal window, run `make hello`. You will now be met with numerous errors! Placing the semicolon back in the correct position and running `make hello` again, the errors go away.
*   Notice also the special symbol `\n` in your code. Try removing those characters and _making_ your program again by executing `make hello`. Typing `./hello` in the terminal window, how did your program change?

<ul>
<li>
<p>Restore your program to the following:</p>

    #include <stdio.h>

    int main(void)
    {
        printf("hello, world\n");
    }

<p>Notice the semicolon and <code>\n</code> have been restored.</p>
</li>
</ul>

*   The statement at the start of the code `#include <stdio.h>` is a very special command that tells the compile that you want to use the capabilities of _library_ called `stdio.h`. This allows you, among many other things, to utilize the `printf` function. You can read about all the capabilities of this library on the [Manual Pages](https://manual.cs50.io).
*   It turns out that CS50 has its own library called `cs50.h`. Let’s use this library in your program.


Variables
---------

*   Recall that in Scratch, we had the ability to ask the user “What’s your name?” and say “hello” with that name appended to it.

<ul>
<li>
<p>In C, we can do the same. Modify your code as follows:</p>

    #include <cs50.h>
    #include <stdio.h>

    int main(void)
    {
        string answer = get_string("What's your name? ");
        printf("hello, %s\n", answer);
    }

<p>Notice that <code>#include <cs50.h></code> has been added to the top of your code. The <code>get_string</code> function is used to get a string from the user. Then, the variable <code>answer</code> is passed to the <code>printf</code> function. <code>%s</code> tells the <code>printf</code> function to prepare itself to receive a <code>string</code>.</p>
</li>
</ul>


    
    
    
*   `answer` is a special holding place we call a _variable_. `answer` is of type `string` and can hold any string within it. There are many _data types_, such as `int`, `bool`, `char`, and many others.
*   Running `make hello` again in the terminal window, you can run your program by typing `./hello`. The program now asks for your name and then says hello with your name attached.
