
Conditionals
------------

*   Another building block you utilized within Scratch was that of _conditionals_. For example, you might want to do one thing if x is greater than y. Further, you might want to do something else if that condition is not met.
*   In the terminal window, type `code compare.c` and write code as follows:
    
        #include <cs50.h>
        #include <stdio.h>
        
        int main(void)
        {
            int x = get_int("What's x? ");
            int y = get_int("What's y? ");
        
            if (x < y)
            {
                printf("x is less than y\n");
            }
        }
        
    
    Notice that we create two variables, an `int` or integer called `x` and another called `y`. The values of these are populated using the `get_int` function.
    
*   You can run your code by executing `make compare` in the terminal window, followed by `./compare`. If you get any error messages, check your code for errors.
*   We can improve your program by coding as follows:
    
        #include <cs50.h>
        #include <stdio.h>
        
        int main(void)
        {
            int x = get_int("What's x? ");
            int y = get_int("What's y? ");
        
            if (x < y)
            {
                printf("x is less than y\n");
            }
            else if (x > y)
            {
                printf("x is greater than y\n");
            }
            else
            {
                printf("x is equal to y\n");
            }
        }
        
    
    Notice that all potential outcomes are now accounted for.
    
*   You can re-make and re-run your program and test it out.
*   Considering another data type called a `char` we can start a new program by typing `code agree.c` into the terminal window. In the text editor, write code as follows:
    
        #include <cs50.h>
        #include <stdio.h>
        
        int main(void)
        {
            // Prompt user to agree
            char c = get_char("Do you agree? ");
        
            // Check whether agreed
            if (c == 'Y' || c == 'y')
            {
                printf("Agreed.\n");
            }
            else if (c == 'N' || c == 'n')
            {
                printf("Not agreed.\n");
            }
        }
        
    
    Notice that single quotes are utilized for single characters. Further, notice that `==` ensure that something _is equal_ to something else, where a single equal sign would have a very different function in C. Finally, notice that `||` effectively means _or_.
    
*   You can test your code by typing `make agree` into the terminal window, followed by `./agree`.
