

Operators and Types
-------------------

*   _Operators_ refer to the mathematical operations that are supported by your compiler. In C, these mathematical operators include:
    
    *   `+` for addition
    *   `-` for subtraction
    *   `*` for multiplication
    *   `/` for division
    *   `%` for remainder
*   Types refer to the possible data that can be stored within a variable. For example, a `char` is designed to accommodate a single character like `a` or `2`.
*   Types are very important because each type has specific limits. For example, because of the limits in memory, the highest value of an `int` can be `4294967296`.
*   Types with which you might interact during this course include:
    
    *   `bool`, a Boolean expression of either true or false
    *   `char`, a single character like a or 2
    *   `double`, a floating-point value with more digits than a float
    *   `float`, a floating-point value, or real number with a decimal value
    *   `int`, integers up to a certain size, or number of bits
    *   `long`, integers with more bits, so they can count higher than an int
    *   `string`, a string of characters
*   You can implement a calculator in C. In your terminal, type `code calculator.c` and write code as follows:
    
        #include <cs50.h>
        #include <stdio.h>
        
        int main(void)
        {
            // Prompt user for x
            int x = get_int("x: ");
        
            // Prompt user for y
            int y = get_int("y: ");
        
            // Perform addition
            printf("%i\n", x + y);
        }
        
    
    Notice how the `get_int` function is utilized to obtain an integer from the user twice. One integer is stored in the `int` variable called `x`. Another is stored in the `int` variable called `y`. Then, the `printf` function prints the value of `x + y`, designated by the `%i` symbol.
    
*   As you are coding, pay special attention to the types of variables you are using to avoid problems within your code.

Summing Up
----------

In this lesson, you learned how to apply the building blocks you learned in Scratch to the C programming language. You learned…

*   How to create your first program in C.
*   Predefined functions that come natively with C and how to implement your own functions.
*   How to use variables, conditionals, and loops.
*   How to use the Linux command line.
*   How to approach problem-solving for a computer science problem.
*   How to integrate comments into your code.
*   How to approach abstraction to simplify and improve your code.
*   How to utilize types and operators.

See you next time!