Lecture 2
=========

*   [Compiling](#compiling)
*   [Debugging](#debugging)
*   [help50 and printf](#help50-and-printf)
*   [debug50](#debug50)
*   [check50 and style50](#check50-and-style50)
*   [Data Types](#data-types)
*   [Memory](#memory)
*   [Arrays](#arrays)
*   [Strings](#strings)
*   [Command-line arguments](#command-line-arguments)
*   [Readability](#readability)
*   [Encryption](#encryption)

Compiling
---------

*   Last time, we learned to write our first program in C. We learned the syntax for the `main` function in our program, the `printf` function for printing to the terminal, how to create strings with double quotes, and how to include `stdio.h` for the `printf` function.
*   Then, we compiled it with `clang hello.c` to be able to run `./a.out` (the default name), and then `clang -o hello hello.c` (passing in a command-line argument for the output’s name) to be able to run `./hello`.
*   If we wanted to use CS50’s library, via `#include <cs50.h>`, for strings and the `get_string` function, we also have to add a flag: `clang -o hello hello.c -lcs50`. The `-l` flag links the `cs50` file, which is already installed in the CS50 Sandbox, and includes prototypes, or definitions of strings and `get_string` (among more) that our program can then refer to and use.
*   We write our source code in C, but need to compile it to machine code, in binary, before our computers can run it.
    *   `clang` is the compiler, and `make` is a utility that helps us run `clang` without having to indicate all the options manually.
*   “Compiling” source code into machine code is actually made up of smaller steps:
    *   preprocessing
    *   compiling
    *   assembling
    *   linking
*   **Preprocessing** involves looking at lines that start with a `#`, like `#include`, before everything else. For example, `#include <cs50.h>` will tell `clang` to look for that header file first, since it contains content that we want to include in our program. Then, `clang` will essentially replace the contents of those header files into our program.
*   For example …
    
        #include <cs50.h>
        #include <stdio.h>
        
        int main(void)
        {
            string name = get_string("Name: ");
            printf("hello, %s\n", name);
        }
        
    
*   … will be preprocessed into:
    
        string get_string(string prompt);
        int printf(const char *format, ...);
        
        int main(void)
        {
            string name = get_string("Name: ");
            printf("hello, %s\n", name);
        }
        
    
*   **Compiling** takes our source code, in C, and converts it to assembly code, which looks like this:
    
        ...
        main:                         # @main
            .cfi_startproc
        # BB#0:
            pushq    %rbp
        .Ltmp0:
            .cfi_def_cfa_offset 16
        .Ltmp1:
            .cfi_offset %rbp, -16
            movq    %rsp, %rbp
        .Ltmp2:
            .cfi_def_cfa_register %rbp
            subq    $16, %rsp
            xorl    %eax, %eax
            movl    %eax, %edi
            movabsq    $.L.str, %rsi
            movb    $0, %al
            callq    get_string
            movabsq    $.L.str.1, %rdi
            movq    %rax, -8(%rbp)
            movq    -8(%rbp), %rsi
            movb    $0, %al
            callq    printf
            ...
        
    
    *   These instructions are lower-level and is closer to the binary instructions that a computer’s CPU can directly understand. They generally operate on bytes themselves, as opposed to abstractions like variable names.
*   The next step is to take the assembly code and translate it to instructions in binary by **assembling** it. The instructions in binary are called **machine code**, which a computer’s CPU can run directly.
*   The last step is **linking**, where the contents of previously compiled libraries that we want to link, like `cs50.c`, are actually combined with the binary of our program. So we end up with one binary file, `a.out` or `hello`, that is the compiled version of `hello.c`, `cs50.c`, and `printf.c`.
