
Running Time
------------

*   _running time_ involves an analysis using _big O_ notation. Take a look at the following graph:
    
    ![chart with: "size of problem" as x-axis; "time to solve" as y-axis; red, steep straight line from origin to top of graph close to yellow, less steep straight line from origin to top of graph both labeled "O(n)"; green, curved line that gets less and less steep from origin to right of graph labeled "O(log n)](https://cs50.harvard.edu/x/2023/notes/3/cs50Week3Slide042.png "big o graphed")
    
*   In the above graph, the first algorithm is in \\(O(n)\\). The second is in \\(O(n)\\) as well. The third is in \\(O(\\log n)\\).
*   It’s the shape of the curve that shows the efficiency of an algorithm. Some common running times we may see are:
    
    *   \\(O(n^2)\\)
    *   \\(O(n \\log n)\\)
    *   \\(O(n)\\)
    *   \\(O(\\log n)\\)
    *   \\(O(1)\\)
*   Of the running times above, \\(O(n^2)\\) is considered the worst running time, \\(O(1)\\) is the fastest.
*   Linear search was of order \\(O(n)\\) because it could take _n_ steps in the worst case to run.
*   Binary search was of order \\(O(\\log n)\\) because it would take fewer and fewer steps to run even in the worst case.
*   Programmers are interested in both the worst case, or _upper bound_, and the best case, or _lower bound_.
*   The \\(\\Omega\\) symbol is used to denote the best case of an algorithm, such as \\(\\Omega(\\log n)\\).
*   The \\(\\Theta\\) symbol is used to denote where the upper bound and lower bound are the same, where the best case and the worst case running times are the same.

Linear and Binary Search
------------------------

*   You can implement linear search ourselves by typing `code search.c` in your terminal window and by writing code as follows:
    
        #include <cs50.h>
        #include <stdio.h>
        
        int main(void)
        {
            // An array of integers
            int numbers[] = {20, 500, 10, 5, 100, 1, 50};
        
            // Search for number
            int n = get_int("Number: ");
            for (int i = 0; i < 7; i++)
            {
                if (numbers[i] == n)
                {
                    printf("Found\n");
                    return 0;
                }
            }
            printf("Not found\n");
            return 1;
        }
        
    
    Notice that the line beginning with `int numbers[]` allows us to define the values of each element of the array as we create it. Then, in the `for` loop, we have an implementation of linear search.
    
*   We have now implemented linear search ourselves in C!
*   What if we wanted to search for a string within an array? Modify your code as follows:
    
        #include <cs50.h>
        #include <stdio.h>
        #include <string.h>
        
        int main(void)
        {
            // An array of strings
            string strings[] = {"battleship", "boot", "cannon", "iron", "thimble", "top hat"};
        
            // Search for string
            string s = get_string("String: ");
            for (int i = 0; i < 6; i++)
            {
                if (strcmp(strings[i], s) == 0)
                {
                    printf("Found\n");
                    return 0;
                }
            }
            printf("Not found\n");
            return 1;
        }
        
    
    Notice that we cannot utilize `==` as in our previous iteration of this program. Instead, we have to use `strcmp`, which comes from the `string.h` library.
    
*   Indeed, running this code allows us to iterate over this array of strings to see if a certain string was within it. However, if you see a _segmentation fault_, where a part of memory was touched by your program that it should not have access to, do make sure you have `i < 6` noted above instead of `i < 7`.
    
*   We can combine these ideas of both numbers and strings into a single program. Type `code phonebook.c` into your terminal window and write code as follows:
    
        #include <cs50.h>
        #include <stdio.h>
        #include <string.h>
        
        int main(void)
        {
            // Arrays of strings
            string names[] = {"Carter", "David"};
            string numbers[] = {"+1-617-495-1000", "+1-949-468-2750"};
        
            // Search for name
            string name = get_string("Name: ");
            for (int i = 0; i < 2; i++)
            {
                if (strcmp(names[i], name) == 0)
                {
                    printf("Found %s\n", numbers[i]);
                    return 0;
                }
            }
            printf("Not found\n");
            return 1;
        }
        
    
    Notice that Carter’s number begins with `+1-617` and David’s phone number starts with ‘1-949’. Therefore, `names[0]` is Carter and `numbers[0]` is Carter’s number.
    
*   While this code works, there are numerous inefficiencies. Indeed, there is a chance that people’s names and numbers may not correspond. Wouldn’t be nice if we could create our own data type where we could associate a person with the phone number?
