
Structs
-------

*   It turns out that we can make our own custom data types called **structs**:
    
        #include <cs50.h>
        #include <stdio.h>
        #include <string.h>
        
        typedef struct
        {
            string name;
            string number;
        }
        person;
        
        int main(void)
        {
            person people[4];
        
            people[0].name = "EMMA";
            people[0].number = "617–555–0100";
        
            people[1].name = "RODRIGO";
            people[1].number = "617–555–0101";
        
            people[2].name = "BRIAN";
            people[2].number = "617–555–0102";
        
            people[3].name = "DAVID";
            people[3].number = "617–555–0103";
        
            // Search for EMMA
            for (int i = 0; i < 4; i++)
            {
                if (strcmp(people[i].name, "EMMA") == 0)
                {
                    printf("Found %s\n", people[i].number);
                    return 0;
                }
            }
            printf("Not found\n");
            return 1;
        }
        
    
    *   We can think of structs as containers, inside of which are multiple other data types.
    *   Here, we create our own type with a struct called `person`, which will have a `string` called `name` and a `string` called `number`. Then, we can create an array of these struct types and initialize the values inside each of them, using a new syntax, `.`, to access the properties of each `person`.
    *   In our loop, we can now be more certain that the `number` corresponds to the `name` since they are from the same `person` element.

Sorting
-------

*   If our input is an unsorted list of numbers, there are many algorithms we could use to produce an output of a sorted list.
*   With eight volunteers on the stage with the following numbers, we might consider swapping pairs of numbers next to each other as a first step.
*   Our volunteers start in the following random order:
    
        6 3 8 5 2 7 4 1
        
    
*   We look at the first two numbers, and swap them so they are in order:
    
        6 3 8 5 2 7 4 1
        – –
        3 6 8 5 2 7 4 1
        
    
*   The next pair, `6` and `8`, are in order, so we don’t need to swap them.
*   The next pair, `8` and `5`, need to be swapped:
    
        3 6 8 5 2 7 4 1
            – –
        3 6 5 8 2 7 4 1
        
    
*   We continue until we reach the end of the list:
    
        3 6 5 2 8 7 4 1
                – –
        3 6 5 2 7 8 4 1
                  – –
        3 6 5 2 7 4 8 1
                    – –
        3 6 5 2 7 4 1 8
        
    
*   Our list isn’t sorted yet, but we’re slightly closer to the solution because the biggest value, `8`, has been shifted all the way to the right.
*   We repeat this with another pass through the list:
    
        3 6 5 2 7 4 1 8
        – –
        3 6 5 2 7 4 1 8
          – –
        3 5 6 2 7 4 1 8
            – –
        3 5 2 6 7 4 1 8
              – –
        3 5 2 6 7 4 1 8
                – –
        3 5 2 6 4 7 1 8
                    – –
        3 5 2 6 4 1 7 8
        
    
    *   Note that we didn’t need to swap the 3 and 6, or the 6 and 7.
*   Now, the next biggest value, `7`, moved all the way to the right. If we repeat this, more and more of the list becomes sorted, and pretty quickly we have a fully sorted list.
*   This algorithm is called **bubble sort**, where large values “bubble” to the right. The pseudocode for this might look like:
    
        Repeat n–1 times
            For i from 0 to n–2
                If i'th and i+1'th elements out of order
                    Swap them
        
    
    *   Since we are comparing the `i'th` and `i+1'th` element, we only need to go up to _n_ – 2 for `i`. Then, we swap the two elements if they’re out of order.
    *   And we can stop after we’ve made _n_ – 1 passes, since we know the largest n–1 elements will have bubbled to the right.
*   We have _n_ – 2 steps for the inner loop, and _n_ – 1 loops, so we get _n_2 – 3_n_ + 2 steps total. But the largest factor, or dominant term, is _n_2, as `n` gets larger and larger, so we can say that bubble sort is _O_(_n_2).
*   We’ve seen running times like the following, and so even though binary search is much faster than linear search, it might not be worth the one–time cost of sorting the list first, unless we do lots of searches over time:
    *   _O_(_n_2)
        *   bubble sort
    *   _O_(_n_ log _n_)
    *   _O_(_n_)
        *   linear search
    *   _O_(log _n_)
        *   binary search
    *   _O_(1)
*   And Ω for bubble sort is still _n_2, since we still check each pair of elements for _n_ – 1 passes.
