
Recursion
---------

*   How could we improve our efficiency in our sorting?
*   _Recursion_ is a concept within programming where a function calls itself. We saw this earlier when we saw…
    
        If no doors
            Return false
        If number behind middle door
            Return true
        Else if number < middle door
            Search left half
        Else if number > middle door
            Search right half
        
    
    Notice that we are calling `search` on smaller and smaller iterations of this problem.
    
*   Similarly, in our pseudocode for Week 0, you can see where recursion was implemented:
    
        1  Pick up phone book
        2  Open to middle of phone book
        3  Look at page
        4  If person is on page
        5      Call person
        6  Else if person is earlier in book
        7      Open to middle of left half of book
        8      Go back to line 3
        9  Else if person is later in book
        10     Open to middle of right half of book
        11     Go back to line 3
        12 Else
        13     Quit
        
    
*   Consider how in Week 1 we wanted to create a pyramid structure as follows:
    
          #
          ##
          ###
          ####
        
    
*   To implement this using recursion, type `code recursion.c` into your terminal window and write code as follows:
    
        #include <cs50.h>
        #include <stdio.h>
        
        void draw(int n);
        
        int main(void)
        {
            draw(1);
        }
        
        void draw(int n)
        {
            for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
            {
                printf("#");
            }
            printf("\n");
        
            draw(n + 1);
        }
        
    
    Notice that the draw function calls itself. Further, note that your code may get caught in an infinite loop. To break from this loop, if you get stuck, hit `ctrl-c` on your keyboard. The reason this creates an infinite loop is that there is nothing telling the program to end. There is no case where the program is done.
    
*   We can correct our code as follows:
    
        #include <cs50.h>
        #include <stdio.h>
        
        void draw(int n);
        
        int main(void)
        {
            // Get height of pyramid
            int height = get_int("Height: ");
        
            // Draw pyramid
            draw(height);
        }
        
        void draw(int n)
        {
            // If nothing to draw
            if (n <= 0)
            {
                return;
            }
        
            // Draw pyramid of height n - 1
            draw(n - 1);
        
            // Draw one more row of width n
            for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
            {
                printf("#");
            }
            printf("\n");
        }
        
    
    Notice the _base case_ will ensure the code does not run forever. The line `if (n <= 0)` terminates the recursion because the problem has been solved. Every time `draw` calls itself, it calls itself by `n-1`. At some point, `n-1` will equal `0`, resulting in the `draw` function returning and the program will end.
    