

Merge Sort
----------

*   We can now leverage recursion in our quest for a more efficient sort algorithm and implement what is called _merge sort_, a very efficient sort algorithm.
*   The pseudocode for merge sort is quite short:
    
        If only one number
            Quit
        Else
            Sort left half of number
            Sort right half of number
            Merge sorted halves
        
    
*   Consider the following list of numbers:
    
          7254
        
    
*   First, merge sort asks, “is this one number?” The answer is “no,” so the algorithm continues.
    
          7254
        
    
*   Second, merge sort will now split the numbers down the middle (or as close as it can get) and sort the left half of numbers.
    
          72|54
        
    
*   Third, merge sort would look at these numbers on the left and ask, “is this one number?” Since the answer is no, it would then split the numbers on the left down the middle.
    
          7|2
        
    
*   Fourth, merge sort will again ask , “is this one number?” The answer is yes this time! Therefore, it will quit this task and return to the last task it was running at this point:
    
          72|54
        
    
*   Fifth, merge sort will sort the numbers on the left.
    
          27|54
        
    
*   Now, we return to where we left off in the pseudocode now that the left side has been sorted. A similar process of steps 3-5 will occur with the right-hand numbers. This will result in:
    
          27|45
        
    
*   Both halves are now sorted. Finally, the algorithm will merge both sides. It will look at the first number on the left and the first number on the right. It will put the smaller number first, then the second smallest. The algorithm will repeat this for all numbers, resulting in:
    
          2457
        
    
*   Merge sort is complete, and the program quits.
*   Merge sort is a very efficient sort algorithm with a worst case of \\(O(n \\log n)\\). The best case is still \\(\\Omega(n \\log n)\\) because the algorithm still must visit each place in the list. Therefore, merge sort is also \\(\\Theta(n \\log n)\\) since the best case and worst case are the same.
*   A final [visualization](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZZuD6iUe3Pc) was shared.

Summing Up
----------

In this lesson, you learned about algorithmic thinking and building your own data types. Specifically, you learned…

*   Algorithms.
*   Big _O_ notation.
*   Binary search and linear search.
*   Various sort algorithms, including bubble sort, selection sort, and merge sort.
*   Recursion.

See you next time!