
Files
-----

*   With the ability to use pointers, we can also open files:
    
        #include <cs50.h>
        #include <stdio.h>
        #include <string.h>
        
        int main(void)
        {
            // Open file
            FILE *file = fopen("phonebook.csv", "a");
        
            // Get strings from user
            char *name = get_string("Name: ");
            char *number = get_string("Number: ");
        
            // Print (write) strings to file
            fprintf(file, "%s,%s\n", name, number);
        
            // Close file
            fclose(file);
        }
        
    
    *   `fopen` is a new function we can use to open a file. It will return a pointer to a new type, `FILE`, that we can read from and write to. The first argument is the name of the file, and the second argument is the mode we want to open the file in (`r` for read, `w` for write, and `a` for append, or adding to).
    *   After we get some strings, we can use `fprintf` to print to a file.
    *   Finally, we close the file with `fclose`.
*   Now we can create our own CSV files, files of comma-separated values (like a mini-spreadsheet), programmatically.

JPEG
====

*   We can also write a program that opens a file and tells us if it’s a JPEG (image) file:
    
        #include <stdio.h>
        
        int main(int argc, char *argv[])
        {
            // Check usage
            if (argc != 2)
            {
                return 1;
            }
        
            // Open file
            FILE *file = fopen(argv[1], "r");
            if (!file)
            {
                return 1;
            }
        
            // Read first three bytes
            unsigned char bytes[3];
            fread(bytes, 3, 1, file);
        
            // Check first three bytes
            if (bytes[0] == 0xff && bytes[1] == 0xd8 && bytes[2] == 0xff)
            {
                printf("Maybe\n");
            }
            else
            {
                printf("No\n");
            }
        
            // Close file
            fclose(file);
        }
        
    
    *   Now, if we run this program with `./jpeg brian.jpg`, our program will try to open the file we specify (checking that we indeed get a non-NULL file back), and read the first three bytes from the file with `fread`.
    *   We can compare the first three bytes (in hexadecimal) to the three bytes required to begin a JPEG file. If they’re the same, then our file is likely to be a JPEG file (though, other types of files may still begin with those bytes). But if they’re not the same, we know it’s definitely not a JPEG file.
*   We can use these abilities to read and write files, in particular images, and modify them by changing the bytes in them, in this week’s problem set!