Lecture 5
=========

*   [Pointers](#pointers)
*   [Resizing arrays](#resizing-arrays)
*   [Data structures](#data-structures)
*   [Linked Lists](#linked-lists)
*   [More data structures](#more-data-structures)

Pointers
--------

*   Last time, we learned about pointers, `malloc`, and other useful tools for working with memory.
*   Let’s review this snippet of code:
    
        int main(void)
        {
            int *x;
            int *y;
        
            x = malloc(sizeof(int));
        
            *x = 42;
            *y = 13;
        }
        
    
    *   Here, the first two lines of code in our `main` function are declaring two pointers, `x` and `y`. Then, we allocate enough memory for an `int` with `malloc`, and stores the address returned by `malloc` into `x`.
    *   With `*x = 42;`, we go to the address pointed to by `x`, and stores the value `42` into that location.
    *   The final line, though, is buggy since we don’t know what the value of `y` is, since we never set a value for it. Instead, we can write:
        
            y = x;
            *y = 13;
            
        
        *   And this will set `y` to point to the same location as `x` does, and then set that value to `13`.
*   We take a look at a short clip, [Pointer Fun with Binky](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3uLKjb973HU), which also explains this snippet in an animated way!

Resizing arrays
---------------

*   In week 2, we learned about arrays, where we could store the same kind of value in a list, side-by-side. But we need to declare the size of arrays when we create them, and when we want to increase the size of the array, the memory surrounding it might be taken up by some other data.
*   One solution might be to allocate more memory in a larger area that’s free, and move our array there, where it has more space. But we’ll need to copy our array, which becomes an operation with running time of _O_(_n_), since we need to copy each of _n_ elements in an array.
*   We might write a program like the following, to do this in code:
    
        #include <stdio.h>
        #include <stdlib.h>
        
        int main(void)
        {
            // Here, we allocate enough memory to fit three integers, and our variable
            // list will point to the first integer.
            int *list = malloc(3 * sizeof(int));
            // We should check that we allocated memory correctly, since malloc might
            // fail to get us enough free memory.
            if (list == NULL)
            {
                return 1;
            }
        
            // With this syntax, the compiler will do pointer arithmetic for us, and
            // calculate the byte in memory that list[0], list[1], and list[2] maps to,
            // since integers are 4 bytes large.
            list[0] = 1;
            list[1] = 2;
            list[2] = 3;
        
            // Now, if we want to resize our array to fit 4 integers, we'll try to allocate
            // enough memory for them, and temporarily use tmp to point to the first:
            int *tmp = malloc(4 * sizeof(int));
            if (tmp == NULL)
            {
                return 1;
            }
        
            // Now, we copy integers from the old array into the new array ...
            for (int i = 0; i < 3; i++)
            {
                tmp[i] = list[i];
            }
        
            // ... and add the fourth integer:
            tmp[3] = 4;
        
            // We should free the original memory for list, which is why we need a
            // temporary variable to point to the new array ...
            free(list);
        
            // ... and now we can set our list variable to point to the new array that
            // tmp points to:
            list = tmp;
        
            // Now, we can print the new array:
            for (int i = 0; i < 4; i++)
            {
                printf("%i\n", list[i]);
            }
        
            // And finally, free the memory for the new array.
            free(list);
        }
        
    
*   It turns out that there’s actually a helpful function, `realloc`, which will reallocate some memory:
    
        #include <stdio.h>
        #include <stdlib.h>
        
        int main(void)
        {
            int *list = malloc(3 * sizeof(int));
            if (list == NULL)
            {
                return 1;
            }
        
            list[0] = 1;
            list[1] = 2;
            list[2] = 3;
        
            // Here, we give realloc our original array that list points to, and it will
            // return a new address for a new array, with the old data copied over:
            int *tmp = realloc(list, 4 * sizeof(int));
            if (tmp == NULL)
            {
                return 1;
            }
            // Now, all we need to do is remember the location of the new array:
            list = tmp;
        
            list[3] = 4;
        
            for (int i = 0; i < 4; i++)
            {
                printf("%i\n", list[i]);
            }
        
            free(list);
        }
        
    