Lecture 6
=========

*   [Python Basics](#python-basics)
*   [Examples](#examples)
*   [More features](#more-features)
*   [Files](#files)
*   [New features](#new-features)

Python Basics
-------------

*   Today we’ll learn a new programming language called Python, and remember that one of the overall goals of the course is not learning any particular languages, but how to program in general.
*   Source code in Python looks a lot simpler than C, but is capable of solving problems in fields like data science. In fact, to print “hello, world”, all we need to write is:
    
        print("hello, world")
        
    
    *   Notice that, unlike in C, we don’t need to import a standard library, declare a `main` function, specify a newline in the `print` function, or use semicolons.
*   Python is an interpreted language, which means that we actually run another program (an interpreter) that reads our source code and runs it top to bottom. For example, we can save the above as `hello.py`, and run the command `python hello.py` to run our code, without having to compile it.
*   We can get strings from a user:
    
        answer = get_string("What's your name?\n")
        print("hello, " + answer)
        
    
    *   We create a variable called `answer`, without specifying the type (the interpreter determins that from context for us), and we can easily combine two strings with the `+` operator before we pass it into `print`.
    *   We can also pass in multiple arguments to `print`, with `print("hello,", answer)`, and it will automatically join them with spaces for us too.
    *   `print` also accepts format strings like `f"hello, {answer}"`, which substitutes variables inside curly braces into a string.
*   We can create variables with just `counter = 0`. To increment a variable, we can use `counter = counter + 1` or `counter += 1`.
*   Conditions look like:
    
        if x < y:
            print("x is less than y")
        elif x > y:
            print("x is greater than y")
        else:
            print("x is equal to y")
        
    
    *   Unlike in C and JavaScript (whereby braces `{` `}` are used to indicate blocks of code), the exact indentation of each line is what determines the level of nesting in Python.
    *   And instead of `else if`, we just say `elif`.
*   Boolean expressions are slightly different, too:
    
        while True:
            print("hello, world")
        
    
*   We can write a loop with a variable:
    
        i = 3
        while i > 0:
            print("cough")
            i -= 1
        
    
*   We can also use a `for` loop, where we can do something for each element in a list:
    
        for i in [0, 1, 2]:
            print("cough")
        
    
    *   Lists in Python are like arrays in C, but they can grow and shrink easily with the interpreter managing the implementation and memory for us.
    *   This `for` loop will set the variable `i` to the first element, `0`, run, then to the second element, `1`, run, and so on.
    *   And we can use a special function, `range`, to get some number of values, as in `for i in range(3)`. This will give us `0`, `1`, and `2`, for a total of thee values.
*   In Python, there are many data types:
    *   `bool`, `True` or `False`
    *   `float`, real numbers
    *   `int`, integers
    *   `str`, strings
    *   `range`, sequence of numbers
    *   `list`, sequence of mutable values, that we can change or add or remove
    *   `tuple`, sequence of immutable values, that we can’t change
    *   `dict`, collection of key/value pairs, like a hash table
    *   `set`, collection of unique values
*   [docs.python.org](https://docs.python.org) is the official source of documentation, but Google and StackOverflow will also have helpful resources when we need to figure out how to do something in Python. In fact, programmers in the real world rarely know everything in the documentation, but rather how to find what they need when they need it.
