
*   We can define a function to get a positive integer:
    
        from cs50 import get_int
        
        def main():
            i = get_positive_int()
            print(i)
        
        def get_positive_int():
            while True:
                n = get_int("Positive Integer: ")
                if n > 0:
                    break
            return n
        
        main()
        
    
    *   Since there is no do-while loop in Python as there is in C, we have a `while` loop that will go on infinitely, but we use `break` to end the loop as soon as `n > 0`. Then, our function will just `return n`.
    *   Notice that variables in Python have function scope by default, meaning that `n` can be initialized within a loop, but still be accessible later in the function.
*   We can print out a row of question marks on the screen:
    
        for i in range(4):
            print("?", end="")
        print()
        
    
    *   When we print each block, we don’t want the automatic new line, so we can pass a parameter, or named argument, to the `print` function. Here, we say `end=""` to specify that nothing should be printed at the end of our string. Then, after we print our row, we can call `print` to get a new line.
*   We can also “multiply” a string and print that directly with: `print("?" * 4)`.
*   We can print a column with a loop:
    
        for i in range(3):
            print("#")
        
    
*   And without a loop: `print("#\n" * 3, end="")`.
*   We can implement nested loops:
    
        for i in range(3):
            for j in range(3):
                print("#", end="")
            print()
        
    
*   We don’t need to use the `get_string` function from the CS50 library, since we can use the `input` function built into Python to get a string from the user. But if we want another type of data, like an integer, from the user, we’ll need to cast it with `int()`.
*   But our program will crash if the string isn’t convertable to an integer, so we can use `get_string` which will just ask again.
*   In Python, trying to get an integer overflow actually won’t work:
    
        from time import sleep
        
        i = 1
        while True:
            print(i)
            sleep(1)
            i *= 2
        
    
    *   We call the `sleep` function to pause our program for a second between each iteration.
    *   This will continue until the integer can no longer fit in your computer’s memory.
*   Floating-point imprecision, too, can be prevented by libraries that can represent decimal numbers with as many bits as are needed.
*   We can make a list:
    
        scores = []
        scores.append(72)
        scores.append(73)
        scores.append(33)
        
        print(f"Average: {sum(scores) / len(scores)}")
        
    
    *   With `append`, we can add items to our list, using it like a linked list.
    *   We can also declare a list with some values like `scores = [72, 73, 33]`.
*   We can iterate over each character in a string:
    
        from cs50 import get_string
        
        s = get_string("Input:  ")
        print("Output: ", end="")
        for c in s:
            print(c, end="")
        print()
        
    
    *   Python will get each character in the string for us.
*   To make a string uppercase, too, we can just call `s.upper()` to get the uppercase version of the entire string, without having to iterate over each character ourselves.
