

Files
-----

*   Let’s open a CSV file:
    
        import csv
        from cs50 import get_string
        
        file = open("phonebook.csv", "a")
        
        name = get_string("Name: ")
        number = get_string("Number: ")
        
        writer = csv.writer(file)
        writer.writerow((name, number))
        
        file.close()
        
    
    *   It turns out that Python also has a `csv` package (library) that helps us work with CSV files, so after we open the file for appending, we can call `csv.writer` to create a `writer` from the file and then `writer.writerow` to write a row. With the inner parentheses, we’re creating a tuple with the values we want to write, so we’re actually passing in a single argument that has all the values for our row.
*   We can use the `with` keyword, which will helpfully close the file for us:
    
        ...
        with open("phonebook.csv", "a") as file:
            writer = csv.writer(file)
            writer.writerow((name, number))
        
    

New features
------------

*   A feature of Python that C does not have is **regular expressions**, or patterns against which we can match strings. For example, its syntax includes:
    *   `.`, for any character
    *   `.*`, for 0 or more characters
    *   `.+`, for 1 or more characters
    *   `?`, for something optional
    *   `^`, for start of input
    *   `$`, for end of input
*   For example, we can match strings with:
    
        import re
        from cs50 import get_string
        
        s = get_string("Do you agree?\n")
        
        if re.search("^y(es)?$", s, re.IGNORECASE):
            print("Agreed.")
        elif re.search("^no?$", s, re.IGNORECASE):
            print("Not agreed.")
        
    
    *   First, we need the `re` package, or library, for regular expressions.
    *   Then, for `y` or `yes`, we have the regular expression `^y(es)?$`. We want to make sure that the string starts with `y`, and optionally has `es` immediately after the `y`, and then ends.
    *   Similarly, for `n` and `no`, we want our string to start, have the letter `n`, and optionally the letter `o` next, and then end. The regular expression for that would be `^no?$`.
    *   We pass in another argument, `re.IGNORECASE`, to ignore the casing of the letters in the string.
    *   If neither regular expression matches, we wouldn’t print anything.
*   On our own Mac or PC, we can open a terminal after installing Python, and use the microphone to convert our speech to text:
    
        import speech_recognition
        
        recognizer = speech_recognition.Recognizer()
        with speech_recognition.Microphone() as source:
            print("Say something!")
            audio = recognizer.listen(source)
        
        print("Google Speech Recognition thinks you said:")
        print(recognizer.recognize_google(audio))
        
    
    *   It turns out that there’s another library we can download, called `speech_recognition`, that can listen to audio and convert it to a string.
*   And now, we can match on the audio to print something else:
    
        ...
        words = recognizer.recognize_google(audio)
        
        # Respond to speech
        if "hello" in words:
            print("Hello to you too!")
        elif "how are you" in words:
            print("I am well, thanks!")
        elif "goodbye" in words:
            print("Goodbye to you too!")
        else:
            print("Huh?")
        
    
*   We can even use regular expressions, to match on part of a string:
    
        ...
        words = recognizer.recognize_google(audio)
        
        matches = re.search("my name is (.*)", words)
        if matches:
            print(f"Hey, {matches[1]}.")
        else:
            print("Hey, you.")
        
    
    *   Here, we can get all the characters after `my name is` with `.*`, and print it out.
*   We run [detect.py and faces.py](https://cdn.cs50.net/2019/fall/lectures/6/src6/6/faces/), which finds each face (or even a specific face) in a photo.
*   [qr.py](https://cdn.cs50.net/2019/fall/lectures/6/src6/6/qr/) will also generate a QR code to a particular URL.