

Object-Oriented Programming
---------------------------

*   Up until this point, our programs in this course have been linear: sequential.
*   It’s possible to have certain types of values not only have properties or attributes inside of them but have functions as well. In Python, these values are known as _objects_
*   In C, we could create a `struct` where you could associate multiple variables inside a single self-created data type. In Python, we can do this and also include functions in a self-created data type. When a function belongs to a specific _object_, it is known as a _method_.
*   For example, `strs` in Python have a built-in _methods_. Therefore, you could modify your code as follows:
    
        # Logical operators, using lists
        
        from cs50 import get_string
        
        # Prompt user to agree
        s = get_string("Do you agree? ")
        
        # Check whether agreed
        if s.lower() in ["y", "yes"]:
            print("Agreed.")
        elif s.lower() in ["n", "no"]:
            print("Not agreed.")
        
    
    Notice how we are able to express multiple keywords like `y` and `yes` and convert any user input to lowercase.
    
*   This could be further simplified as:
    
        # Logical operators, using lists
        
        from cs50 import get_string
        
        # Prompt user to agree
        s = get_string("Do you agree? ")
        
        s = s.lower()
        
        # Check whether agreed
        if s in ["y", "yes"]:
            print("Agreed.")
        elif s in ["n", "no"]:
            print("Not agreed.")
        
    
    Notice how the old value of `s` is overwritten with the result of `s.lower()`.
    
*   In this class, we will only scratch the surface of Python. Therefore, the [Python documentation](https://docs.python.org) will be of particular importance as you continue.
*   You can learn more about string methods in the [Python documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#string-methods)

Meow
----

*   Returning to `meow.c` from weeks earlier, recall the following code:
    
        // Demonstrates while loop
        
        #include <stdio.h>
        
        int main(void)
        {
            int i = 0;
            while (i < 3)
            {
                printf("meow\n");
                i++;
            }
        }
        
    
*   The above can be implemented within Python as:
    
        # Demonstrates while loop
        
        i = 0
        while i < 3:
            print("meow")
            i += 1
        
    
*   Similarly, using a `for` loop, we can write code as follows:
    
        # Better design
        
        for i in range(3):
            print("meow")
        
    
*   As we hinted at earlier today, you can further improve upon this code using functions. Modify your code as follows:
    
        # Abstraction
        
        def main():
            for i in range(3):
                meow()
        
        # Meow once
        def meow():
            print("meow")
        
        
        main()
        
    
    Notice that the `meow` function abstracts away the `print` statement. Further, notice that the `main` function appears at the top of the file. At the bottom of the file, the `main` function is called. By convention, it’s expected that you create a `main` function in Python.
    
*   Indeed, we can pass variables between our functions as follows:
    
        # Abstraction with parameterization
        
        def main():
            meow(3)
        
        
        # Meow some number of times
        def meow(n):
            for i in range(n):
                print("meow")
        
        
        main()
        
    
    Notice how `meow` now takes a variable `n`. In the `main` function, you can call `meow` and pass a value like `3` to it. Then, `meow` utilizes the value of `n` in the `for` loop.
    
*   Reading the above code, notice how you, as a C programmer, are able to quite easily make sense of the above code. While some conventions are different, the building blocks you previously learned are very apparent in this new programming language.
    
