
Scores
------

*   `list`s are a data structure within Python.
*   `list`s have built in methods or functions within them.
*   For example, consider the following code:
    
        # Averages three numbers using a list and a loop
        
        from cs50 import get_int
        
        # Get scores
        scores = []
        for i in range(3):
            score = get_int("Score: ")
            scores.append(score)
        
        # Print average
        average = sum(scores) / len(scores)
        print(f"Average: {average}")
        
    
    Notice that you can use the built-in `append` method, whereby you can `append` the score to the list. Also notice that we use the `sum` function to add all elements in the list.
    
*   You can even ultilize the following syntax:
    
        # Averages three numbers using a list and a loop with + operator
        
        from cs50 import get_int
        
        # Get scores
        scores = []
        for i in range(3):
            score = get_int("Score: ")
            scores += [score]
        
        # Print average
        average = sum(scores) / len(scores)
        print(f"Average: {average}")
        
    
    Notice that `+=` is utilized to append the score to the list. In this case we place square brackets around `score` because only a `list` can be added to another `list` using `+` or `+=`.
    
*   You can learn more about lists in the [Python documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#sequence-types-list-tuple-range)
*   You can also learn more about `len` in the [Python documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#len)

Uppercase
---------

*   Similarly, consider the following code:
    
        # Uppercases string one character at a time
        
        before = input("Before: ")
        print("After:  ", end="")
        for c in before:
            print(c.upper(), end="")
        print()
        
    
    Notice that each character is uppercased one at a time.
    
*   Python has a built-in method for `str`s. You could modify your code as follows:
    
        # Uppercases string all at once
        
        before = input("Before: ")
        after = before.upper()
        print(f"After:  {after}")
        
    
    Notice the `upper` method is utilized to uppercase the entire string at once.
    

Greet
-----

*   As with C, you can also utilize command-line arguments. Consider the following code:
    
        # Prints a command-line argument
        
        from sys import argv
        
        if len(argv) == 2:
            print(f"hello, {argv[1]}")
        else:
            print("hello, world")
        
    
    Notice that `argv[1]` is printed using a _formatted string_, noted by the `f` present in the `print` statement.
    
*   You can print all the arguments in `argv` as follows:
    
        # Printing command-line arguments, indexing into argv
        
        from sys import argv
        
        for i in range(len(argv)):
            print(argv[i])
        
    
    Notice that the above will not present the word `python` if executed, and the first argument will be the name of the file you are running. You can think of the word `python` as being analogous to `./` when we were running programs in C.
    
*   You can slice pieces of lists away. Consider the following code:
    
        # Printing command-line arguments using a slice
        
        from sys import argv
        
        for arg in argv[1:]:
            print(arg)
        
    
    Notice that executing this code will result in the name of the file you are running being sliced away.
    
*   You can learn more about the `sys` library in the [Python documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html)
    
