
Relational Databases
--------------------

*   Google, Twitter, and Meta all use relational databases to store their information at scale.
*   Relational databases store data in rows and columns in structures called _tables_.
*   SQL allows for four types of commands:
    
          Create
          Read
          Update
          Delete
        
    
*   These four operations are affectionately called _CRUD_.
*   We can create a SQL database at the terminal by typing `sqlite3 favorites.db`. Upon being prompted, we will agree that we want to create `favorites.db` by pressing `y`.
*   You will notice a different prompt as we are now inside a program called `sqlite3`.
*   We can put `sqlite3` into `csv` mode by typing `.mode csv`. Then, we can import our data from our `csv` file by typing `.import favorites.csv favorites`. It seems that nothing has happened!
*   We can type `.schema` to see the structure of the database.
*   You can read items from a table using the syntax `SELECT columns FROM table`.
*   For example, you can type `SELECT * FROM favorites;` which will iterate every row in `favorites`.
*   You can get a subset of the data using the command `SELECT language FROM favorites;`.
*   SQL supports many commands to access data, including:
    
          AVG
          COUNT
          DISTINCT
          LOWER
          MAX
          MIN
          UPPER
        
    
*   For example, you can type `SELECT COUNT(language) FROM favorites;`. Further, you can type `SELECT DISTINCT(language) FROM favorites;` to get a list of the individual languages within the database. You could even type `SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT(language)) FROM favorites;` to get a count of those.
    
        # Searches database popularity of a problem
        
        import csv
        
        from cs50 import SQL
        
        # Open database
        db = SQL("sqlite:///favorites.db")
        
        # Prompt user for favorite
        favorite = input("Favorite: ")
        
        # Search for title
        rows = db.execute("SELECT COUNT(*) FROM favorites WHERE problem LIKE ?", "%" + favorite + "%")
        
        # Get first (and only) row
        row = rows[0]
        
        # Print popularity
        print(row["COUNT(*)"])
        
    
*   SQL offers additional commands we can utilize in our queries:
    
          WHERE       -- adding a Boolean expression to filter our data
          LIKE        -- filtering responses more loosely
          ORDER BY    -- ordering responses
          LIMIT       -- limiting the number of responses
          GROUP BY    -- grouping responses together
        
    
    Notice that we use `--` to write a comment in SQL.
    
*   For example, we can execute `SELECT COUNT(*) FROM favorites WHERE language = 'C';`. A count is presented.
*   Further, we could type `SELECT COUNT(*) FROM favorites WHERE language = 'C' AND problem = 'Mario';`. Notice how the `AND` is utilized to narrow our results.
*   Similarly, we could execute `SELECT language, COUNT(*) FROM favorites GROUP BY language;`. This would offer a temporary table that would show the language and count.
*   We could improve this by typing `SELECT language, COUNT(*) FROM favorites GROUP BY language ORDER BY COUNT(*);`. This will order the resulting table by the `count`.
*   We can also `INSERT` into a SQL database utilizing the form `INSERT INTO table (column...) VALUES(value, ...);`.
*   We can execute `INSERT INTO favorites (language, problem) VALUES ('SQL', 'Fiftyville');`.
*   We can also utilize the `UPDATE` command to update your data.
*   For example, you can execute `UPDATE favorites SET language = 'C++' WHERE language = 'C';`. This will result in overwriting all previous statements where C was the favorite programming language.
*   Notice that these queries have immense power. Accordingly, in the real-world setting, you should consider who has permissions to execute certain commands.
*   `DELETE` allows you to delete parts of your data. For example, you could `DELETE FROM favorites WHERE problem = 'Tideman';`.
