
Problems
--------

*   One problem with databases is **race conditions**, where the timing of two actions or events cause unexpected behavior.
*   For example, consider two roommates and a shared fridge in their dorm. The first roommate comes home, and sees that there is no milk in the fridge. So the first roommate leaves to the store to buy milk, and while they are at the store, the second roommate comes home, sees that there is no milk, and leaves for another store to get milk. Later, there will be two jugs of milk in the fridge. By leaving a note, we can solve this problem. We can even lock the fridge so that our roommate can’t check whether there is milk, until we’ve gotten back.
*   This can happen in our database if we have something like this:
    
        rows = db.execute("SELECT likes FROM posts WHERE id=?", id);
        likes = rows[0]["likes"]
        db.execute("UPDATE posts SET likes = ?", likes + 1);
        
    
    *   First, we’re getting the number of likes on a post with a given ID. Then, we set the number of likes to that number plus one.
    *   But now if we have two different web servers both trying to add a like, they might both set it to the same value instead of actually adding one each time. For example, if there are 2 likes, both servers will check the number of likes, see that there are 2, and set the value to 3. One of the likes will then be lost.
*   To solve this, we can use transactions, where a set of actions is guaranteed to happen together.
*   Another problem in SQL is called a **SQL injection attack**, where an adversary can execute their own commands on our database.
*   For example, someone might try type in `malan@harvard.edu'--` as their email. If we have a SQL query that’s a formatted string (without escaping, or substituting dangerous characters from, the input), such as `f"SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = '{username}' AND password = '{password}'"`, then the query will end up being `f"SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = 'malan@harvard.edu'--' AND password = '{password}'"`, which will actually select the row where `username = 'malan@harvard.edu'` and turn the rest of the line into a comment. To prevent this, we should use `?` placeholders for our SQL library to automatically escape inputs from the user.