Lecture 8
=========

*   [Welcome!](#welcome)
*   [Routers](#routers)
*   [DNS](#dns)
*   [HTTP](#http)
*   [HTML](#html)
*   [CSS](#css)
*   [Frameworks](#frameworks)
*   [JavaScript](#javascript)
*   [Summing Up](#summing-up)

Welcome!
--------

*   In previous weeks, we introduced you to Python, a high-level programming language that utilized the same building blocks we learned in C. Today, we will extend those building blocks further in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
*   The internet is a technology that we all use.
*   Using our skills from previous weeks, we can build our own web pages and applications.
*   The _ARPANET_ connected the first points on the internet to one another.
*   Dots between two points could be considered _routers_.

Routers
-------

*   To route data from one place to another, we need to make _routing decisions_. That is, someone needs to program how data is transfered from point A to point B.
*   You can imagine how data could take multiple paths from point A and point B, such that when a router is congested, data can flow through another path.
*   _TCP/IP_ are two protocols that allow computers to transfer data between them over the internet.
*   _IP_ or _internet protocol_ is a way by which computers can identify one another across the internet. Every computer has a unique address in the world. Addresses are in this form:
    
          #.#.#.#
        
    
*   Numbers range from `0` to `255`. IP addresses are 32-bits, meaning that these addresses could accommodate over 4 billion addresses. Newer versions of IP addresses can accommodate far more computers!
*   In the real world, servers do a lot of work for us.
*   _TCP_, or transmission control protocol, is used to distinguish web services from one another. For example, `80` is used to denote HTTP and `443` is used to denote HTTPS. These numbers are _port numbers_.
*   When information is sent from one location to another, an IP address and TCP port number are sent.
*   These protocols are also used to fragment large files into multiple parts called _packets_. For example, a large photo of a cat can be sent in multiple packets. When a packet is lost, TCP/IP can request missing packets again from the origin server.
*   TCP will acknowledge when all the data has been transmitted and received.

DNS
---

*   It would be very tedious if you needed to remember an address number to visit a website.
*   _DNS_, or _domain name systems_, is a collection of servers on the internet that are used to route website addresses like _harvard.edu_ to a specific IP address.
*   DNS simply hold a table or database that links specific, fully qualified domain names to specific IP addresses.

HTTP
----

*   _HTTP_ or _hypertext transfer protocol_ is an application-level protocol that developers use to build powerful and useful things.
*   When you see an address such as `https://www.example.com` you are actually implicitly visiting that address with a `/` at the end of it.
*   The _path_ is what exists after that slash. For example, `https://www.example.com/folder/file.html` visits `example.com` and browses to the `folder` folder and then visits the file named `file.html`.
*   `https` in this address is the protocol that is used to connect to that web address. By protocol, we mean that HTTP utilizes `GET` or `POST` _requests_ to ask for information from a server. For example, you can launch Google Chrome, right-click, and click `inspect`. When you open the `developer tools` and visit `Network`, selecting `Preserve log`, you will see `Request Headers`. You’ll see mentions of `GET`. This is possible in other browsers as well, using slightly different methods.
*   Generally, after making a request a server, you will receive the following in `Response Headers`:
    
          HTTP/1.1 200 OK
          Content-Type: text/html
        
    
*   This approach to inspecting these logs may be a bit more complicated than need be. You can analyze the work of HTTP protocols at [code.cs50.io](https://code.cs50.io). For example, type the following in your terminal window:
    
          curl -I https://www.harvard.edu
        
    
    Notice that the output of this command returns all the header values of the responses of the server.
    
*   Similarly, execute the following in your terminal window:
    
          curl -I http://www.harvard.edu
        
    
    Notice that the `s` in `https` has been removed. The server response will show that the response is `301` instead of `100`, meaning that the website has permanently moved.
    
*   Further, execute the following command in your terminal window:
    
          curl -I https://harvard.edu
        
    
    Notice that you will see the same `301` response, providing a hint to a browser of where it can find the correct website.
    
*   Similar to `301`, a code of `404` means that a specified URL has not been found. There are numerous other response codes, such as:
    
          200 OK
          301 Moved Permanently
          302 Found
          304 Not Modified
          304 Temporary Redirect
          401 Unauthorized
          403 Forbidden
          404 Not Found
          418 I'm a Teapot
          500 Internal Server Error
          503 Service Unavailable
        
    
*   It’s worth mentioning that `500` errors are always your fault as the developer. This will be especially important for next week’s pset, and potentially for your final project!
*   We can send more complicated commands to the server. For example, we can attempt the following:
    
          GET /search?q=cats HTTP/1.1
          Host: www.google.com
        
    
    Notice that not only are we specifying a path but also user input using the `?` mark. `q` is used to denote _query_, passing `cats` to it.
    
*   If you manually type `google.com/search?=cats` into your web browser address bar, it will manually query Google for results related to `cats`.
