Lecture 9
=========

*   [Welcome!](#welcome)
*   [Static to Dynamic](#static-to-dynamic)
*   [Flask](#flask)
*   [Layout](#layout)
*   [POST](#post)
*   [Frosh IMs](#frosh-ims)
*   [Flask and SQL](#flask-and-sql)
*   [Session](#session)
*   [Store](#store)
*   [API](#api)
*   [JSON](#json)
*   [Summing Up](#summing-up)

Welcome!
--------

*   In previous weeks, you have learned numerous programming languages, techniques, and strategies.
*   Indeed, this class has been far less of a _C class_ or _Python class_ and far more of a _programming class_, such that you can go on to follow future trends.
*   In these past several weeks, you have learned _how to learn_ about programming.
*   Today, we will be moving from HTML and CSS into combining HTML, CSS, SQL, Python, and JavaScript so you can create your own web applications.

Static to Dynamic
-----------------

*   Up until this point, all HTML you saw was pre-written and static.
*   In the past, when you visited a page, the browser downloaded an HTML page, and you were able to view it.
*   Dynamic pages refer to the ability of Python and similar languages to create HTML files on-the-fly. Accordingly, you can have web pages that are generated by options selected by your user.
*   You have used `http-server` in the past to serve your web pages. Today, we are going to utilize a new server that can parse out a web address and perform actions based on the URL provided.

Flask
-----

*   _Flask_ is a third-party library that allows you to host web applications using the Flask framework within Python.
*   You can run flask by executing `flask run`.
*   To do so, you will need a file called `app.py` and a folder called `templates`.
*   To get started, create a folder called `templates` and create a file called `index.html` with the following code:
    
        <!DOCTYPE html>
        
        <html lang="en">
            <head>
                <meta name="viewport" content="initial-scale=1, width=device-width">
                <title>hello</title>
            </head>
            <body>
                hello, {{ name }}
            </body>
        </html>
        
    
    Notice the double `{{ name }}` that is a placeholder for something that will be later provided by our Flask server.
    
*   Then, in the same folder that the `templates` folder appears, create a file called `app.py` and add the following code:
    
        # Greets user
        
        from flask import Flask, render_template, request
        
        app = Flask(__name__)
        
        
        @app.route("/")
        def index():
            return render_template("index.html", name=request.args.get("name", "world"))
        
    
    Notice that this code defines `app` as the Flask application. Then, it defines the `/` route of `app` as returning the contents of `index.html` with the argument of `name`. By default, the `request.args.get` function will look for the `name` being provided by the user. If no name is provided, it will default to `world`.
    
*   Finally, add a final file in the same folder as `app.py` called `requirements.txt` that has only a single line of code:
    
        Flask
        
    
    Notice only `Flask` appears in this file.
    
*   You can run this file by typing `flask run` in the terminal window. If Flask does not run, ensure that your syntax is correct in each of the files above. Further, if Flask will not run, make sure your files are organized as follows:
    
        /templates
            index.html
        app.py
        requirements.txt
        
    
    Once you get it running, you will be prompted to click a link. Once you navigate to that webpage, try adding `?name=[Your Name]` to the base URL in your browser’s URL bar.
    
*   Improving upon our program, we know that most users will not type arguments into the address bar. Instead, programmers rely upon users to fill out forms on web pages. Accordingly, we can modify index.html as follows:
    
        <!DOCTYPE html>
        
        <html lang="en">
            <head>
                <meta name="viewport" content="initial-scale=1, width=device-width">
                <title>hello</title>
            </head>
            <body>
                <form action="/greet" method="get">
                    <input autocomplete="off" autofocus name="name" placeholder="Name" type="text">
                    <button type="submit">Greet</button>
                </form>
            </body>
        </html>
        
    
    Notice that a form is now created that takes the user’s name and then passes it off to a route called `/greet`.
    