
Store
-----

*   Moving on to a final example of utilizing Flask’s ability to enable a session.
*   We examined the following code for `store` in `app.py`. The following code was shown:
    
        from cs50 import SQL
        from flask import Flask, redirect, render_template, request, session
        from flask_session import Session
        
        # Configure app
        app = Flask(__name__)
        
        # Connect to database
        db = SQL("sqlite:///store.db")
        
        # Configure session
        app.config["SESSION_PERMANENT"] = False
        app.config["SESSION_TYPE"] = "filesystem"
        Session(app)
        
        
        @app.route("/")
        def index():
            books = db.execute("SELECT * FROM books")
            return render_template("books.html", books=books)
        
        
        @app.route("/cart", methods=["GET", "POST"])
        def cart():
        
            # Ensure cart exists
            if "cart" not in session:
                session["cart"] = []
        
            # POST
            if request.method == "POST":
                id = request.form.get("id")
                if id:
                    session["cart"].append(id)
                return redirect("/cart")
        
            # GET
            books = db.execute("SELECT * FROM books WHERE id IN (?)", session["cart"])
            return render_template("cart.html", books=books)
        
    
    Notice that `cart` is implemented using a list. Items can be added to this list using the `Add to Cart` buttons in `books.html`. When clicking such a button, the `post` method is invoked, where the `id` of the item is appended to the `cart`. When viewing the cart, invoking the `get` method, SQL is executed to display a list of the books in the cart.
    

API
---

*   An _application program interface_ or _API_ is a series of specifications that allow you to interface with another service. For example, we could utilize IMDB’s API to interface with their database. We might even integrate APIs for handling specific types of data downloadable from a server.
*   We looked at an example called `shows`.
*   Looking at `app.py`, we saw the following:
    
        # Searches for shows using Ajax
        
        from cs50 import SQL
        from flask import Flask, render_template, request
        
        app = Flask(__name__)
        
        db = SQL("sqlite:///shows.db")
        
        
        @app.route("/")
        def index():
            return render_template("index.html")
        
        
        @app.route("/search")
        def search():
            q = request.args.get("q")
            if q:
                shows = db.execute("SELECT * FROM shows WHERE title LIKE ? LIMIT 50", "%" + q + "%")
            else:
                shows = []
            return render_template("search.html", shows=shows)
        
    
    Notice that the `search` route executes a SQL query.
    
*   Looking at `search.html`, you’ll notice that it is very simple:
    
        {% for show in shows %}
            <li>{{ show["title"] }}</li>
        {% endfor %}
        
    
    Notice that it provides a bulleted list.
    