Problem Set 1
=============

Collaboration on problem sets is not permitted except to the extent that you may ask classmates and others for help so long as that help does not reduce to another doing your work for you, per the course’s policy on [academic honesty](../../syllabus/#academic-honesty).

The staff conducts random audits of submissions to CS50x. Students found to be in violation of this policy will be removed from the course. Students who have already completed CS50x, if found to be in violation, will have their CS50 Certificate permanently revoked.

What to Do
----------

Be sure you have completed [Lab 1](../../labs/1/) before beginning this problem set.

1.  Log into [code.cs50.io](https://code.cs50.io/) using your GitHub account.
2.  Run `update50` in your codespace’s terminal window to ensure your codespace is up-to-date and, when prompted, click **Rebuild now**
3.  Submit [Hello](hello/)
4.  Submit one of:
    *   [this version of Mario](mario/less/) if feeling less comfortable
    *   [this version of Mario](mario/more/) if feeling more comfortable
5.  Submit one of:
    *   [Cash](cash/) if feeling less comfortable
    *   [Credit](credit/) if feeling more comfortable

If you submit both versions of Mario, we’ll record the higher of your two scores. If you submit both Cash and Credit, we’ll record the higher of your two scores.

When to Do It
-------------

By [2023-12-31T23:59:00+00:00](https://time.cs50.io/20231231T235900Z).

Advice
------

*   Try out any of David’s programs from class via [Week 1](../../weeks/1/)’s source code.
*   See CS50’s [style guide for C](https://cs50.readthedocs.io/style/c/) for tips on how to improve your code’s style.
*   If you see any errors when compiling your code with `make`, focus first on fixing the very first error you see, scrolling up as needed. If unsure what it means, try asking `help50` for help. For instance, if trying to compile `hello`, and
    
        make hello
        
    
    is yielding errors, try running
    
        help50 make hello
        
    
    instead!