Problem Set 6
=============

Collaboration on problem sets is not permitted except to the extent that you may ask classmates and others for help so long as that help does not reduce to another doing your work for you, per the course’s policy on [academic honesty](../../syllabus/#academic-honesty).

The staff conducts random audits of submissions to CS50x. Students found to be in violation of this policy will be removed from the course. Students who have already completed CS50x, if found to be in violation, will have their CS50 Certificate permanently revoked.

What to Do
----------

Be sure you have completed [Lab 6](../../labs/6/) before beginning this problem set.

1.  Log into [code.cs50.io](https://code.cs50.io) using your GitHub account
2.  Run `update50` in your codespace’s terminal window to ensure your codespace is up-to-date.
3.  Submit [Hello](hello/) in Python
4.  Submit one of:
    *   [this version of Mario](mario/less/) in Python, if feeling less comfortable
    *   [this version of Mario](mario/more/) in Python, if feeling more comfortable
5.  Submit one of:
    *   [Cash](cash/) in Python, if feeling less comfortable
    *   [Credit](credit/) in Python, if feeling more comfortable
6.  Submit [Readability](readability/) in Python
7.  Submit [DNA](dna/) in Python

If you submit both versions of Mario, we’ll record the higher of your two scores. If you submit both Cash and Credit, we’ll record the higher of your two scores.

When to Do It
-------------

By [2023-12-31T23:59:00+00:00](https://time.cs50.io/20231231T235900Z).

Advice
------

*   Try out any of David’s programs from [Week 6](../../weeks/6/).

Academic Honesty
----------------

*   For Hello, Mario, Cash, Credit, and Readability, it is **reasonable** to look at your own implementations thereof in C and others’ implementations thereof _in C_.
*   It is **not reasonable** to look at others’ implementations of the same _in Python_.
*   Insofar as a goal of these problems is to teach you how to teach yourself a new language, keep in mind that these acts are not only **reasonable**, per the syllabus, but encouraged toward that end:
    *   Incorporating a few lines of code that you find online or elsewhere into your own code, provided that those lines are not themselves solutions to assigned problems and that you cite the lines’ origins.
    *   Turning to the web or elsewhere for instruction beyond the course’s own, for references, and for solutions to technical difficulties, but not for outright solutions to problem set’s problems or your own final project.